## Objective:

This project is designed to provide an enjoyable, convenient and rewarding mobile Android platform experience for those with a desire to make a positive impact in their community, and beyond, by helping out and giving back to a variety of charitable causes. The application takes the user’s location in order to generate all registered charitable organizations within a user-determined geographical radius. The user will be provided with the standard information regarding each charity such as a brief description, directions to their physical locations, hours of operations and, based on the availability, links to their online presence (website, Facebook, Instagram, etc). Additionally, users will also be provided visual representations of the data regarding the charities past such as funding, expenses, resource allocation, etc. All of this is to help users make an educated decision as to whether or not this is a cause they would like to aid, all directly from within the app. Provided sufficient remaining time after the completion of the aforementioned features, the second phase of this project’s development will consist of features which will require users to either create a profile on the app via their Charity App, Gmail or Facebook accounts. When logged in, users can watch ads provided by Google AdSense which will give them in-app points. These points directly translate to the ad revenue generated by the very ads they watched. Then the user can choose which charity they would like to donate their points/ads revenue towards. This provides users who personally don’t have the ability to give back an opportunity to still make the positive impact they desire. The final feature would be a platform which will be a crowdsourced events board where users can schedule/sign up for these charitable events right from within the app. The creator of the events will be asked to provide data such as time, location and category of the event’s cause. In order to make sure these posts are trustworthy, the attending users can rate the event. At the end, the event organizer will get a rating so other users can know in the future whether or not they would like to attend one of their events in the future.


## Key Personas:

Jon Verleni, a young adult that has little time but still wants to give back to the disadvantaged in some way.

Margaret O'Neal, an elderly not so tech savvy woman who wants to give back to her community. She really believes in getting close and personal with the people that she wants to donate too.

Carl Sanchez, is a young undergraduate student that lacks time or money but like every decent human being wants to give back to the world in some way.


## Key Scenarios:

On his commute to work, Jon encounters 3 different homeless people. He first saw a man on the subway platform, playing a broken accordion for spare change. As he was exiting the subway station outside his work, he sees an old woman selling stickers to anyone who pasted her by. Then as he was leaving the nearby Tim Hortons, Jon sees a man simply with a sign asking for change. Feeling sympathetic, Jon really did want to help each one of these people but simply does not want to personally invest the time it would take to make a real impact their lives. So he decides to find a charity in the area whoses mission is to help out the homeless, where he can donate some of his money and extra clothing. But he is only willing to donate if he is sure his donations will actually go towards helping the homeless in this community.

Margaret is a retired financial analyst with no grandchildren and not much meaningfull activites to fill her day. She decides she would like to do something that gives back to the community she is living in. With her mind made up, Margaret starts looking for volunteer opportunities which she can sign up to read/teach local orphaned children. At her age, she gets overwhelmed by the number of options available when she looks for organizations looking for volunteers. So she needs a clean, well-organized platform which will help her find her specific charitable cause, right in her local area.


## Key Principles:

Users want to find charities that make an observable impact on their lives: One deterrent for those who want to give back is they don’t trust or see their contributions are actually making a difference. The combination of showing charities based in the user’s community along with visualization of how these organizations allocate their resources is designed to address the user’s concerns about their donations being misused.

Users delight over simple and clear interface: Due to the overwhelming number of charities, the design of the user interface must allow for both rapid and effective navigation.The data not being properly organized will be sufficient to overwhelm and turn off users to using the application.
